Let's go talk about joins,
more about joins.
I got a great graphic off of Wikipedia.
So credit to Wikipedia.
You can see down here that
it's attribute it to them.
There are multiple different
kinds of joins but
we just talked about was one of
them which is called an inner join.
In this particular case, it didn't really
matter because we were pretty well
assured that there is a going to be
a match for, for everything right.
So a good example of this.
This top one here,
this is an inner join this AB one.
Every comment definitely has a user,
every user well and that's the relation to
the cuz we were querying for
all the comments on board number 39.
And we know that every comment has a user
we're sure that by the way that we
set up our tables with those foreign keys,
right?
That's assured to us.
So the kind of join that we chose
here you could have chosen left join,
or inner join.
Both of those would have worked.
Right join probably wouldn't have worked.
I don't have to think about that.
Anyway, what you're seeing here is,
if I have records in both one of these,
that bolt that matches the where, but
doesn't join, what do you want me to do
with that inner join says like it must
have a match or don't include it.
So if we had a comment that didn't have
a user match up in the user table.
In a inner joins situation,
you would drop that comment.
Does that make sense?
So if one of the user IDs was set to
know you would just not include it.
Let's talk about a second this left join.
So let's take another kind of
situation where a left join is
actually pretty useful,
if i had comments that didn't have users.
And I wanted to include those comments
despite the fact that they didn't have
users INNER JOIN wouldn't work,
INNER JOIN would eliminate those
ones that don't have any users.
Left join would include them, and
include anything in that querying table,
that doesn't have a match
in the right table, right?
So, in this case,
you have table A, and table B,
inner join includes only the overlap.
Left join also includes anything in
the first table from the from table here,
right?
That doesn't have a match
in the beat table.
That makes sense?
The flip side of that is let's
say I had users I wanted
to include that had comments.
I guess that wouldn't really work either.
The one where this joins actually does
make sense is if I wanna grab boards that
don't have any comments, then grabbing
from the right board makes sense.
And then there is some wild kind of
joins where you wanna exclude things
that exist in other trade tables.
I don't use these ones hardly ever like
90% can be encompassed by inner joins.
The other 8% come from here,
2% come from here.
And then these ones just
don't happen very often, but
let's talk about what they are left join.
Yeah.
For comment has a user ID that
doesn't exist included anyway.
Outer joins, which are these ones here.
Full outer join basically says,
if there's a match in the middle,
don't include it only include things that
don't have matches from either table.
Sorry, that's an outer join.
FULL OUTER JOINS says include
everything that's this one right here.
And then there's a thing as well
called a CROSS JOIN which if you
know the mathematical term Cartesian
product, that's what that is.
Basically sit make every
possible combination possible.
So let's say you had a table with A,
B, and C in one, and a table of D and
E in another.
If you did a cross join, you'd end up with
a product of AD, AE, BD, BE, CD and CE.
So it makes every possible
combination between the two tables.
If you have, what did I say if you
have 1000 rows in one table and
1000 rows in another,
you'll get a million records back so
be cautious when you do cross joints,
okay.
If that doesn't seem super clear,
it's okay.
That's a lot to take in all the ones
this is we're kind of getting
into like set math right of how to get
the overlap between two different things.
Just know that.
These Inner Joins are going to do most of
what you want to do and occasionally left
joins and occasionally right joins
are going to be useful to you as well.
Natural joins are kind of more of a,
I think it's a Postgres thing.
I don't remember using these in MySQL,
don't quote me on that.
I actually don't know if they exist or
not.
But there's a cool thing that you can say
is, hey, I know the field names match up.
So just make find ways
to make this work right.
So we can actually rewrite this query
that I did here on INNER JOIN and
just say what I can do here
is I can actually remove this
entire on clause and
just say natural INNER JOIN like this.
And it still works, which is pretty cool.
Why does that still work?
It's because we call them
user ID in both tables.
And so it's like okay, I'm going to
look for things that have the same name.
If they have the same name,
I'm going to make sure that they match.
That's all natural join does it just
it's a little intelligence around.
If you named these things
consistently across tables, and
you didn't like cross contaminate, right,
so if you call them ID in both different
tables, that wouldn't work, right?
Because it would try and match comment
IDs to user IDs and that wouldn't work.
Because they're called user ID in both
tables is like, I know what these are.
I can do a natural inner join that way.
Makes sense?
And just to prove my point as well,
I'm pretty sure if I just say
natural left join as well.
It's actually not going
to change anything.
Because the inner join in the left join in
this particular case we're gonna end up
being the same thing now, I don't think
right join will work but let me check.
I guess it would.
Yeah it would because nothing would
ever be out of the If you look at this,
everything's gonna end up being the same.
I mean,
I guess we could do full outer join.
No it wouldn't.
Wait, hold on, actually it would.
You can see that this stuff I
have to really think about it.
This one still needs full outer and
natural, full outer join.
Yeah, it actually doesn't have working so
you can do a full up, so in every one of
these cases because everything is included
in the set every single time because of
our foreign key constraints, you can
actually do any joint here and it'll work.
I don't know why I decided to discover
this in front of you all right now, but
it was a fun journey of
that you can graduate.
Went on me with.
Suffice to say if everything
is included in the set and
on your joins it doesn't matter
which join you're gonna choose.
What matters is when you have things
that are gonna match in one table and
not in the other.
And some of them will and
some of them won't.
Then it matters is what
kind of join you choose.
In that situation,
choose INNER JOIN, just so you know.
So that's what natural join does.
That was kind of be my original point
natural join just like if you named
everything the same so user ID is called
user ID consistently throughout our tables
natural join, we'll just match setup.